## Running container on AWS EC2 using shell:
## 1. First push to Docker hub:
- first create a new repository on Docker hub. copy repository name
- build the image locally with the following command
```shell
docker build -t example1 .
```
* Make sure the image is supported by the AWS instance that you are using. For example EC2 instances support only x86_64 images. So for node alpine images, you need to use the x86_64 version of the image. with the following build command
```shell   
docker build -t example1 --platform linux/amd64 .
```
- tag the image with the repository name
```shell
docker tag example1 repository-name
```
- push the image to Docker hub
```shell
docker push repository-name
```
## 2. Run the container on AWS:
- SSH into the AWS instance
- Type the following command to pull the image from Docker hub
```shell
docker run -d --rm -p 80:80 repository-name
```
- The container should be running on the AWS instance. You can check the status of the container with the following command
```shell
docker ps
```
- To view the container in the browser, type the public IP address of the AWS instance in the browser. by default it is blocked by a security group, you need to add a rule to allow inbound traffic.
- Go to security groups in the EC2 dashboard, select the security group of the instance, click on the inbound rules tab, click on edit inbound rules, add a rule with the following settings:
    - Type: HTTP
    - Protocol: TCP
    - Port range: 80
    - Source: Anywhere ipv4
- Now you should be able to view the container in the browser by typing the public IP address of the AWS instance.

